[NBS Docs] Updating getting-started permissions docs to new backend! (#24229)
backstage/backstage: docs/permissions/getting-started.md

Author: Also, do we keep the youtube video? I think quite a lot has changed since then :sweat_smile: not sure how useful it is nowadays

Reviewer: My personal opinion is we remove it. Keeping videos like this up to date is pretty hard.

> The permissions framework itself is new to Backstage and still evolving quickly. To ensure your version of Backstage has all the latest permission-related functionality, it’s important to upgrade to the latest version. The [Backstage upgrade helper](https://backstage.github.io/upgrade-helper/) is a great tool to help ensure that you’ve made all the necessary changes during the upgrade!

Reviewer 2: > The permissions framework itself is new to Backstage and still evolving quickly.

Is this still relevant?

Author: Haha, maybe needs rewording, I don't think its considered `new` anymore or evolving `quickly` but I think its still probably evolving as most things are 😅

Reviewer 2: > but I think its still probably evolving as most things are 

Everything is evolving quickly 🤣 I don't know if that's specific to permissions at this point.

Reviewer 3: Yeah it's been out so long that this does seem unnecessary - i guess it's not only about the framework though, but also about every single individual plugin starting to support permissions at their own pace. Could probably remove only the first sentence but keep the rest I guess 🤔 because the other wording kinda encompasses all Backstage things, not just the core

### Supply an identity resolver to populate group membership on sign in

**Note**: If you are working off of an existing Backstage instance, you likely already have some form of an identity resolver set up.

Like many other parts of Backstage, the permissions framework relies on information about group membership. This simplifies authoring policies through the use of groups, rather than requiring each user to be listed in the configuration. Group membership is also often useful for conditional permissions, for example allowing permissions to act on an entity to be granted when a user is a member of a group that owns that entity.

## Optionally add cookie-based authentication

> Asset requests initiated by the browser will not include a token in the `Authorization` header. If these requests check authorization through the permission framework, as done in plugins like TechDocs, then you'll need to set up cookie-based authentication. Refer to the ["Authenticate API requests"](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/contrib/docs/tutorials/authenticate-api-requests.md) tutorial for a demonstration on how to implement this behavior.

Reviewer 2: The `authenticate-api-requets.md` has a section for the new backend system, but the backend migration guide says that you should generally rip it out and rely on the new auth services. 

Is this still accurate?

Author: Hmmm, will need to check! Good catch! 👍

Reviewer 3: This entire cookie section can be removed. It's built into the new auth system already without any additional setup needed

The permissions framework itself is new to Backstage and still evolving quickly. To ensure your version of Backstage has all the latest permission-related functionality, it’s important to upgrade to the latest version. The [Backstage upgrade helper](https://backstage.github.io/upgrade-helper/) is a great tool to help ensure that you’ve made all the necessary changes during the upgrade!

### Enable service-to-service authentication

Service-to-service authentication allows Backstage backend code to verify that a given request originates from elsewhere in the Backstage backend. This is useful for tasks like collation of catalog entities in the search index. This type of request shouldn’t be permissioned, so it’s important to configure this feature before trying to use the permissions framework.

To set up service-to-service authentication, follow the [service-to-service authentication docs](../auth/service-to-service-auth.md).

> 

Author: IIRC We don't need this anymore right?

Reviewer 3: Correct, in the new system it's always set up correctly.

### Supply an identity resolver to populate group membership on sign in

**Note**: If you are working off of an existing Backstage instance, you likely already have some form of an identity resolver set up.

Like many other parts of Backstage, the permissions framework relies on information about group membership. This simplifies authoring policies through the use of groups, rather than requiring each user to be listed in the configuration. Group membership is also often useful for conditional permissions, for example allowing permissions to act on an entity to be granted when a user is a member of a group that owns that entity.

[The IdentityResolver docs](../auth/identity-resolver.md) describe the process for resolving group membership on sign in.

> 

Author: Should we remove this, or is there a new version we can point to? Seems odd to point to the old backend for this part :thinking:

Reviewer 3: This has been updated just recently! Check it out! So you can put back this text

[The IdentityResolver docs](../auth/identity-resolver.md) describe the process for resolving group membership on sign in.

## Integrating the permission framework with your Backstage instance

> ### 1. Set up the permission backend

Reviewer 4: Thinking that we should mention that this is already included in a `create-app` setup, including the `allow-all` policy.

Author: > Thinking that we should mention that this is already included in a `create-app` setup, including the `allow-all` policy.

Added it in a fancy `:::info` block I saw on the service-to-service auth docs, WDYT? :smile:

> The permissions framework uses a new `permission-backend` plugin to accept authorization requests from other plugins across your Backstage instance. The Backstage backend does not include this permission backend by default, so you will need to add it:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The permissions framework uses the `permission-backend` plugin to accept authorization requests from other plugins across your Backstage deployment. The default `@backstage/create-app` template includes the permission backend, but if you need to make the change manually, these are the steps:
```

> The permissions framework uses the `permission-backend` plugin to accept authorization requests from other plugins across your Backstage deployment. The default `@backstage/create-app` template includes the permission backend, but if you need to make the change manually, these are the steps:
> 
> 1. Add `@backstage/plugin-permission-backend` and `@backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy` to your backend dependencies, this will add the permission backend and a policy that allows all permissions:
> 
> ```bash
> # From your Backstage root directory
> yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-permission-backend @backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy
> ```
> 
> 2. Add the following to `packages/backend/src/index.ts`. This adds the permission-backend router, and configures it with a policy which allows everything.
> 
> ```typescript title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
> import { createBackend } from '@backstage/backend-defaults';
> const backend = createBackend();
> // ...
> /* highlight-add-next-line */
> backend.add(import('@backstage/plugin-permission-backend/alpha'));
> /* highlight-add-next-line */
> backend.add(
>   import('@backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy'),
> );
> // ...
> backend.start();
> ```

Reviewer 5: do we need this? I think it makes things more complicated. We recommended to keep backstage up to date in the step before, which already includes this step. Remove it? 😄

```suggestion
```

Author: True, less is more as they say! 😅

[The IdentityResolver docs](../auth/identity-resolver.md) describe the process for resolving group membership on sign in.

## Integrating the permission framework with your Backstage instance

:::info
If you created your backstage app using the [@backstage/create-app](https://backstage.io/docs/getting-started/#1-create-your-backstage-app), the permission framework will already be setup including the allow-all policy!

> :::

Reviewer 4: Ah I forgot to delete the earlier comment after suggesting the concrete update 😅. I'm a lil bit worried that this will not have people skip step 2, which is still important to enable permissions. As a side note I'm thinking we should change the default there too, but let's consider that separately.

  async handle(request: PolicyQuery): Promise<PolicyDecision> {
    if (request.permission.name === 'catalog.entity.delete') {
      return {
        result: AuthorizeResult.DENY,
      };
    }

    return { result: AuthorizeResult.ALLOW };
  }
}
```

3. We then need to use the permissions backend policy extension point to register our policy, to do this we can add the following to `packages/backend/src/index.ts`:

```ts title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
import { createBackend } from '@backstage/backend-defaults';
import { DenyCatalogDeletePolicy } from './permissions/policy';
const backend = createBackend();
// ...
backend.add(import('@backstage/plugin-permission-backend/alpha'));
/* highlight-remove-next-line */
backend.add(
  import('@backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy'),
);
/* highlight-add-next-line */
backend.add(
  createBackendModule({
    pluginId: 'permission',
    moduleId: 'deny-catalog-delete-policy',
    register(reg) {
      reg.registerInit({
        deps: { policy: policyExtensionPoint },
        async init({ policy }) {
          policy.setPolicy(new DenyCatalogDeletePolicy());
        },
      });
    },
  }),
);
// ...

> backend.start();

Author: I am assuming this `/* highlight-add-next-line */` will not work as I want it to here :sweat_smile: or will it?

Author: Fixed in [18f5652](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/24229/commits/18f565273a1eb0d30e1b6fc0735ad5df985e2016)

The permissions framework uses a new `permission-backend` plugin to accept authorization requests from other plugins across your Backstage instance. The Backstage backend does not include this permission backend by default, so you will need to add it:

1. Add `@backstage/plugin-permission-backend` and `@backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy` to your backend dependencies, this will add the permission backend and a policy that allows all permissions:

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-permission-backend
```

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-permission-backend-module-allow-all-policy
```

> 2. Add the following to `packages/backend/src/index.ts`. This adds the permission-backend router, and configures it with a policy which allows everything.

Reviewer 2: Reading through your instructions while working on permissions migration. What are your thoughts on combining this into a single yarn command?

     enabled: true
   ```

> 2. Its now all wired up and working, great! But perhaps we don't want to simply allow everything, lets try and create our own policy, to do this you can create a new folder in `packages/backend/src` called `permissions` and create a new file called `policy.ts`, in that file we can add the following to create a policy that denies deleting entities from the catalog:

Author: Is this the preferred way to add policies? (as we use OPA we don't do it :sweat_smile:)  I am not sure if you should `yarn new` and create a module for a policy to simply do it this way? LMK!

Reviewer 2: We created a new backend module called `@internal/backstage-plugin-permission-backend-module-policy-[company-name]`. That follows closely to @backstage/plugin-**permission**-backend-**module**-allow-all-policy. We don't have enough policies to break them into separate plugins. 

Many of the doc examples show inlining the examples like you are doing, so I think that keeps things in sync. What about adding something at the end saying "while our example shows creating the policy in `src/backend`, it's best practice for permission policies to live in a backend module that extends the permissions plugin.

Author: Good one, can always show how to do it _both_ ways, I am not sure how maybe @freben or @Rugvip feel about the best practise here? Maybe you could weigh in when you have a moment? 😅

Reviewer 3: I tend to just put it into the backend index as well ... there ends up being a couple of extra steps that add confusion otherwise. Matter of taste, but yeah, those instructions for adding finely granular packages start to add up once you document how to do it for a bunch of individual adaptations.

Reviewer 3: But I have a separate thought. What if we cut out everything after the config enablement? We could basically instead say "congratulations, you have now ..." blah blah, and then "to actually start enabling fine grained permissions checks, see https://backstage.io/docs/permissions/writing-a-policy"

Author: > But I have a separate thought. What if we cut out everything after the config enablement? We could basically instead say "congratulations, you have now ..." blah blah, and then "to actually start enabling fine grained permissions checks, see https://backstage.io/docs/permissions/writing-a-policy"

Yeah I like this approach as well, let me play around with the wording see if we can make it flow nicely 😄
